---
title: Contributing
layout: default
permalink: /contributing/
---

_The repository is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/denosawr/mathia-rulebook)._

<br>

Hey! Good to hear that you want to help out.

This wiki is hosted on GitHub! What you're reading right now has been generated by a site generator called _Jekyll_. How it works isn't really important, but you have to understand a few things before you can contribute:


### Contributing to the Documentation
Due to the nature of Git, you can both make confirmed changes and also proposals (which are to be discussed).

Your changes must be in a specific format in order to make everything work. Let's say you want to create a new role. There is a template, in [New Role Template]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link information/new-role-template.md %}). Follow it religiously. Stick to the guidelines and the rules. If the template says to put a space, put a space. The system can be a little confusing for non-developers, so here's a step-by-step tutorial!

First, head over to where the code is hosted, on [GitHub](https://github.com/denosawr/mathia-rulebook). The files in this wiki are typed using Markdown, which is a word preprocessor like LaTeX. Unlike Microsoft Word, you don't `Cmd+B` in order to type bold! You use `**bold**`. The formatting is almost identical to the formatting supported by Discord. A quick search online for "Github Flavoured Markdown" should explain how to use Markdown, if you're still unsure.

There are two folders of note here. One is the `information` folder, which contains general information like `how-to-play.md`. The next is the `roles` folder, which contains information about each role. Let's say you want to edit the role `detective.md`.

There is an excellent tutorial on how to edit files and submit a pull request [here](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-files-in-a-repository/editing-files-in-another-users-repository). Check it out for an explanation of how to create a pull request.

The destination of your pull request is important. If you're submitting:
* A clarification of an existing rule or role, or further Interactions: create a PR directly to `base:master` (the default branch).
* A proposed change or a new rule which has been put in place: create a PR to `base:documentation`.
* Make sure your pull request never goes to any other branches!

Why? This ensures that the rulebook will keep one specific ruleset during the course of a game.

Now, it's up to the Game Masters to discuss or approve your changes. If you have proposed a suggestion, it will probably be discussed in the server.

### Anything else?
Yes! GitHub will spam your email _hard_. Make sure that you're not watching the `denosawr/mathia-rulebook` repo; if you are, click the "Unwatch" button to not... be spammed to hell. Also, disable email notifications at [https://github.com/settings/notifications](https://github.com/settings/notifications): uncheck 

* Comments on Issues and Pull Requests
* Pull Request reviews
* Pull Request pushes
* Include your own updates
* Watching: Email
* Participating: Email
* GitHub Actions: Email

### Contributing to the Code
This repository follows the Github Flow form. That means that if you have a feature, create a new descriptive branch in your own fork and submit a pull request to `base:master`. As `base:master` must always be deployable, ensure your code builds before submitting a PR; the repo also has a custom CI build action to verify this. Do not PR to `base:documentation` if you do not have documentation proposals or changes.

<br>

Thank you for contributing :)